[Please help publicize this opportunity in appropriate channels.]

======================================================================
-- PhD Position on SMT Reasoning
-- Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil
======================================================================

Applications are invited for a PhD student position on SMT-solving in
Computer Science at Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN),
Natal, RN, Brazil. The position is funded through a MEC/CAPES
scholarship giving a BR$2.200 monthly stipend for up to four years.
The student will carry out his/her research activities in the context
of a collaboration between the research groups ForAll (Formal Methods
and Languages Laboratory, "http://sites.google.com/site/forallufrn"),
at UFRN, and VeriDis (Verification of Distributed Systems,
"http://veridis.loria.fr") at LORIA/Inria, Nancy, France. This
collaboration is supported by a STIC AmSud project that also involves
the LIIS group (Logics, Interaction and Intelligent Systems,
"http://liis.famaf.unc.edu.ar") from FaMAF at Universidad Nacional de
Cordoba, Argentina.

Information about the position can be given by David Deharbe
("mailto:david@dimap.ufrn.br").

The application is open until the Graduate Program has filled the
available positions. The full application process is available at
"http://www.posgraduacao.ufrn.br/ppgsc”.

Subject Area
------------

SMT solving is an automatic theorem proving technique that integrates
efficient Boolean reasoning with specialized decision procedures for
different first-order logics such as equality and linear arithmetics
with quantifier instantiation heuristics such as E-matching and
model-based instantiation.

SMT solvers are used in practice for program verification, application
of formal methods, hardware design, compilers, interactive theorem
proving, etc. So, doing research on SMT solving is not just about
theory: it also needs excellent programming skills to implement
original ideas and validate them experimentally in such application
contexts.

Our group has been studying and developing techniques for SMT solving
for more than a decade. We use our SMT solver veriT
("http://www.verit-solver.org") as an experimental test-bed for the
evaluation of our ideas. Our group has been involved in the creation
of the SMT plug-in for Rodin, an Eclipse-based environment for system
modeling in Event-B.

For the application process, the candidate should elaborate and submit
a research project that clearly identifies the aspects of SMT solving
(e.g. novel combination techniques, specific decision procedures,
original application domains) that are to be addressed. We advise the
candidates to contact us to discuss this with us.

Research Environment
--------------------

UFRN main campus is located in the east side of Natal, next to the
Dunes Park, a large natural reserve. UFRN is an important university
in Brazil, and has departments in almost all areas. DIMAp, the
Department of Informatics and Applied Mathematics, has undergraduate
courses in Computer Science and Software Engineering and a graduate
program in systems and computing, delivering both Master and Doctoral
degrees. The program has been awarded a grade 5 by CAPES, ranking it
amongst the top 20% computer science programs in Brazil, and offers
research opportunities in the areas of Programming Languages and
Formal Methods, Experimental Algorithms, Software Engineering, Image
Processing and Computer Graphics, Foundations of Computing, Integrated
and Distributed Systems. More informations on this program can be
found at the following URL: "http://www.posgraduacao.ufrn.br/ppgsc".

The research will be carried out in the context of the international
cooperation with the teams VeriDis and LIIS. It is expected that the
student interact with our partner, including through long stays at
partner institutions (e.g. through programs such as Science Without
Borders).

Qualifications Required
-----------------------

The candidates should have a Master of Science in Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, or equivalent. Experience in mathematical logic,
automated reasoning, and formal methods is desirable, as are good
implementation skills.

The duration of the course is for a maximum of four years and include
other duties such as obtaining course credits (including some teaching
activities) and foreign languages fluency certificates.  Good skills
in spoken and written English are a requirement.

About Natal
-----------

Natal is the capital city of the state of Rio Grande do Norte. It is
located in the Northeastern-most part of Brazil, 5º south of the
equator. It is a coastal city with kilometers of beaches, making it a
favorite tourist destination. More informations can be obtained at
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natal,_Rio_Grande_do_Norte".
